Add blog entry about pod security standard 'restricted' (#822)
fluxcd/website: content/en/blog/2022-03-09-pod-security-standard-restricted.md

enabled. In addition to that you can see which restrictions were added
as part of which Kubernetes release, meaning that with every Kubernetes
release, you will benefit from new Upstream Kubernetes security
improvements automatically.

## `RuntimeDefault` and `seccomp`

Seccomp is short for "Secure Computing". It refers to a facility in the
Linux kernel which can limit the number of system calls available to a
given process. Right now there are around 300+ system calls available,
e.g. `read` to read from a file descriptor or `chmod` to change the
permissions of a file. The more syscalls you block, the more secure your
application, as a rogue process will only be able to do what you
specified.

In its first inception `seccomp` was introduced into Linux in 2005, to
Docker in version 1.10 (Feb 2016) and to Kubernetes in version 1.3 (Jul
2016). So while the technology has been around for a while and you could
handcraft your own `seccomp` profiles, the challenge has always been
striking the right balance: if you are too generous in your filter, it
won't guard against malware effectively -- if you are too strict, your
application might not work.

> 

Reviewer: It may be worth pointing out that as of `v1.24` Kubernetes still runs all workloads with seccomp in `unconfined` mode, in other words, disabled. On the other hand, docker has seccomp enabled by default for years now - I believe it was soon after they started supporting it.

There are plans to change the Kubernetes default on `v1.25`, and have all workloads set to `RuntimeDefault` unless opted-out - this is yet to be confirmed. This will be based on `SeccompDefault` [feature gate](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) being enabled from that version onwards.

All container runtimes come with a default seccomp profile. [Docker
Desktop for
example](https://github.com/moby/moby/blob/master/profiles/seccomp/default.json)
blocks around 44 system calls. In Kubernetes you can enable the seccomp
profile RuntimeDefault for your pod like so:

```yaml
spec:
  securityContext:
    seccompProfile:
      type: RuntimeDefault
```

> All Flux controllers have this implemented as well now! This is just one
> more measure we are taking to keep you more secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All Flux controllers have this enforced now - regardless of the cluster-level settings.
This is just one more measure we are taking to keep you more secure.
```

> 

Reviewer: Wrapping up we could just summarise that by adopting both changes, we further restrict the permissions that flux requires in order to operate. This, alongside other changes we are working on, translates in a decreased attack surface which may reduce the impact of eventual CVEs that may surfaced in our code base - or our supply chain.

enabled. In addition to that you can see which restrictions were added
as part of which Kubernetes release, meaning that with every Kubernetes
release, you will benefit from new Upstream Kubernetes security
improvements automatically.

{{% note %}}
As of v1.24 Kubernetes still runs all workloads with `seccomp` in
`unconfined` mode, in other words, disabled. On the other hand, Docker
has `seccomp` enabled by default for years now.

There are discussions to change the Kubernetes default on v1.25, and have all
workloads set to `RuntimeDefault` unless opted-out. This would be based on
`SeccompDefault` [feature
gate](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
being enabled from that version onwards.
{{% /note %}}

{{% note %}}
If you are an OpenShift user, you might run into [this
issue](https://github.com/fluxcd/source-controller/issues/582)
([related upstream
report](https://github.com/openshift/cluster-kube-apiserver-operator/issues/1325)).
The work-around right now is to remove the seccomp profile as
described in [these instructions](/docs/use-cases/openshift/#flux-installation-with-cli).
{{% /note %}}

> 

Author: @pjbgf WDYT?

Reviewer: Yes, @dholbach I like it - precise and to the point, whilst providing all the info the user may need. :+1:
